docs(ci-services): initial pass at detailed docs (#648)
travi/javascript-scaffolder: docs/ci-services.md

# CI Services

The CI services map defines the supported CI services the user will be
presented with when running the scaffolder.

## Example

```javascript
{
  CIServiceName: {scaffolder: opts => scaffold(opts), public: true}
}
```

## Existing scaffolders
There are already multiple CI service scaffolders [available for
consumption](https://github.com/form8ion/awesome#continuous-integration-services).
Should your workflow fit into those, feel free to integrate them directly. If
not, you are welcome and encouraged to build more (and maybe consider

> submitting a PR with a link 😎)!

Reviewer: 👍🏼

## Config

### keys: __string__

Keys in the CI services map define the choices the user will be presented with
when choosing their desired CI service. These have no functional impact on the
scaffolder.

example: `CIServiceName`

### values: __object__

> Values in the CI services map define the actual mechanisms and configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values in the CI services map define the actual plugins and options
```

does this fit your goal with this piece? if so, they are maybe a little more consistent with the terminology ive been using

that will be used by the JavaScript Scaffolder to scaffold the CI service for
the user's project.

#### scaffolder: __function__ (_required_)

Consumer-provided plugin called when this CI service is selected by the
user in the interactive prompt. Will be called with the following arguments:

* `projectRoot` __string__ full path to the directory where scaffolder will
  create the JavaScript project
* `vcs` __object__

>   * `host` __string__ VCS hosting service to generate the repo with (e.g., `github`)

Reviewer: one of the areas that i think we need to figure out a better way to use a constant throughout, but i think `github` is currently passed as `GitHub` everywhere that i can think of. did you find a situation where it is all lowercase?

Author: good call. i thought i had found all of these somewhere being used, but this one all i can find is `GitHub` like you suggested so i'm not sure how i ended there before. updating.

>   * `owner` __string__ account name on the host service for the repository to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `owner` __string__ account name on the host service to generate the repository
    within (e.g., `form8ion`)
```

Reviewer: actually, js-scaffolder is not responsible for the generation of the repo. when using the project-scaffolder, the project-scaffolder does the repo generation. when using add-package-to-monorepo, the repo already exists

so, w/in the context of the js-scaffolder, the vcs details are simply informational for what repo the js-project details will be generated within

Author: this is making me wonder. how should we word this? given that it's the docs for the ci-services scaffolder. should we word it like the repo is already created? i could see both arguments but i'm not sure it's totally clear.

Reviewer: i think we can leave whether the repo exists or not yet ambiguous. i'd try to focus on it being the repo within which the js stuff will end up, regardless of order/timeline

    generate (e.g., `form8ion`)

>   * `name` __string__ repository name to generate (e.g., `javascript-scaffolder`)

Reviewer: i think `javascript-scaffolder` might be a confusing example when the docs are within the existing `javascript-scaffolder` repo for similar reasons that we use `@travi/any` in tests. one of those things that could leave you wondering what the significance of the magic string is

* `visibility` __string__ visibility of the project to be scaffolded (valid
  values are: `Public`, `Private`)
* `projectType` __string__ type of project to be scaffolded (valid values are:
  `Application`, `Package`, `CLI`)

> * `nodeVersionCategory` __string__ node category chosen for the project (valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `nodeVersionCategory` __string__ category of node version chosen for the project (valid
```

  values are: `Latest`, `LTS`)
* `tests` __object__
  * `unit` __boolean__ whether the project will be unit-tested
  * `integration` __boolean__ whether the project will be integration-tested

> *Response*

Reviewer: i typically call this results. not sure response is a good fit since that makes me think request/response, which i dont think this really is

The response object is commonly used across the project as a way for scaffolders
to communicate information to the parent.

> * `nextSteps` __array__ list of strings that will be aggregated and displayed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `nextSteps` __array__ list of objects with shape of {summary: __string__, description: __markdown string__} that will be aggregated and displayed
```

not quite a suggestion of exact content, but this is the more correct type

Author: i got this shape from [here](https://github.com/travi/github-scaffolder/blob/9189718bd11a60dad5f2c7804ce94e895e82cd9e/src/next-steps.js#L13). am i understanding that one wrong?

Reviewer: yeah, which might be pointing out confusing api design. the important piece to consider here is order of operations and apparently that multiple returned objects are using the same attribute name.

the results from sub-scaffolders, like the ci plugins, have [this shape](https://github.com/travi/github-scaffolder/blob/9189718bd11a60dad5f2c7804ce94e895e82cd9e/src/next-steps.js#L4), which are processed in that case to create github issues for each one. the version that you linked to is a list of urls that point to the created issues. keep in mind that the subscaffolders dont know which processors will read the results and that the github one is only one processor

Author: nice, good to know 👍 .  i went ahead and made the change, but i'm still confused. the docs we're shooting for in this change are the return values from the ci scaffolder. from what i'm seeing in the example you linked above it looks like the return value from the github scaffolder contains an object with `nextSteps` that is just a list of urls. 

this is making me think you might be talking about the values passed _in_ to the ci scaffolder, which i don't even have in the list of arguments to the top-level `scaffolder` on the ci-services object.

Reviewer: oh, right... yeah, we probably need to improve the naming even more if i'm getting confused by this. you're right that i was getting the input/output wrong, but the reason for me getting it wrong is that i was pointing out the version of `nextSteps`	 that is more consistently returned from _general_ plugins. i was still thinking from the perspective of working toward documenting the general case and calling out how the specific cases differ from that. even calling out this difference is really confusing when they use the same name for very different purposes

  to the user when all scaffolding is complete. This can be used to remind the
  user about steps that the scaffolder is not able to complete or has not been
  developed, but may be needed before considering scaffolding complete.  (e.g.,
  `['decide whether default dependency automation settings are appropriate']`)

> * `devDependencies` __array__ list of strings containing dev dependencies to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `devDependencies` __array__ list of strings defining the package names of dev dependencies to
```

> * `devDependencies` __array__ list of strings containing dev dependencies to

Reviewer: while not as common (especially in the context of ci scaffolders), be sure to also mention `dependencies` with a similar description

>   be added to the project's `package.json` upon creation (e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be installed into the project (e.g.
```

i considered mentioning `package-lock.json`, but also want to consider yarn since it needs to be supported soon. thinking through that made me realize that the files matter less than the fact that it gets installed for use

  `@travi/travis-lint`)
* `scripts` __object__ a map of scripts to add to the project's
  `package.json`
  * `keys` __string__ the name of the script you would like added to the

>     `package.json` (e.g., `'disabled:lint:travis'`)

Reviewer: if we use a specific example like this, i would remove the `disabled:`

  * `values` __string__ the script to run when called (e.g., `'travis-lint
    .travis.yml'`)
* `badges` __object__
  * `status` __object__ badges to be added to the `status` section of the
    generated top-level README
    * `keys` __string__ name used to identify this badge type (e.g.,
      `github-actions-ci`)
    * `values` __object__
      * `text` __string__ (_required_) text you would like displayed on this
        badge (e.g., `Build Status`)
      * `img` __string__ (_required_) a url to the image for this badge. Each
        CI service has it's own way of handling badging. See [adding a github
        workflow status
        badge](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/managing-workflow-runs/adding-a-workflow-status-badge)
        for an example.

>       * `link` __string__ (_required_) a url to the build status you would like

Reviewer: i dont think this one is required

# CI Services

> The CI service blob defines the supported CI services the user will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CI service map? defines the supported CI services the user will be
```

i'm not sure that "blob" suggests the intended structure to me for this. not that its wrong, but it makes my brain pause. im not sure that map is better. object is probably most technically correct for js, but is probably less informative. what do you think is most clear?

presented with when running the scaffolder.

## Example

```javascript
{

>   TravisCI: {scaffolder: travisScaffolder, public: true}

Reviewer: assuming we link to the available plugins for this in the awesome list, i think it would be better to be more generic here than using a specific example. maybe not as far as using "foo", but probably better to not refer to a specific one, like the travis one.

i think it is valuable to highlight that these are truly consumer contributed, which means you can provide your own and dont even have to stick to the blessed ones in the awesome list

}
```

## Config

### keys: __string__

> Keys in the CI services blob define the options the user will be presented with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keys in the CI services map? define the choices the user will be presented with
```

may also be worth mentioning that the keys are user defined and don't impact any programatic logic (assuming that is true. i think it is for ci services, but may not be in some other choice situations. i havent thought of great solutions when that is the case)

when choosing their desired CI service.

example: `TravisCI`

### values: __object__

Values in the CI services blob define the actual mechanisms and configuration
that will be used by the JavaScript Scaffolder to scaffold the CI service for
the user's project.

#### scaffolder: __function__ (_required_)

> Consumer-defined plugin(??) called when this ci service is selected by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consumer-provided plugin(??) called when this CI service is selected by the
```

> user in the CLI. Will be called with the following arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user in the interactive prompt. Will be called with the following arguments:
```

Reviewer: i think this is just a little less specific about the consumer of the scaffolder but still speaks to the input needed that is specific to the scaffolder

> * `projectRoot` __string__ full path to directory where scaffolder was initiated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `projectRoot` __string__ full path to directory where scaffolder will create the JavaScript project
```

especially now that `add-package-to-monorepo` exists, it is important to clarify that this is not the same as `process.cwd()`. this was always the intent, but that is finally a concrete example where it can be different

> * `vcs` __object__

Reviewer: this is a case where this shape is repeated/comes from other pieces of the scaffolding puzzle. i think spelling it out like this makes sense, but i do wonder if there would be some benefit at some point to have a shared shape defined somewhere that we link to from here (and other places) instead

Author: i very much agree here. at first i had empty links on each one of these to call that out because i do think more detail would be really useful, but obviously had no where to link them to yet 😄 . i can actually start that as a followup to this one, then link these to the new docs once they're there.

Reviewer: > at some point

i'm not trying to say there is any rush to it, just calling out the thought that went through my head. i think this is very appropriate at this point, but seems like something we'll figure out as we get farther along with the remaining pieces

  * `host` __string__ VCS hosting service to generate the repo with (e.g., `github`)
  * `owner` __string__ account name on the host service for the repository to
    generate (e.g., `form8ion`)
  * `name` __string__ repository name to generate (e.g., `javascript-scaffolder`)

> * `visibility` __string__ visibility of the project to be scaffolded (e.g., `Public`, `Private`)

Reviewer: do we validate that `Public` and `Private` are the valid options here with joi? if we limit to only those two, it would probably be better to say something like "valid values are: " instead of "e.g." in that case

# CI Services

The CI services map defines the supported CI services the user will be
presented with when running the scaffolder.

## Example

```javascript
{
  CIServiceName: {scaffolder: opts => scaffold(opts), public: true}
}
```

## Config

### keys: __string__

Keys in the CI services map define the choices the user will be presented with
when choosing their desired CI service. These have no functional impact on the
scaffolder.

example: `CIServiceName`

### values: __object__

Values in the CI services map define the actual mechanisms and configuration
that will be used by the JavaScript Scaffolder to scaffold the CI service for
the user's project.

#### scaffolder: __function__ (_required_)

> Consumer-provided plugin(??) called when this CI service is selected by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consumer-provided plugin called when this CI service is selected by the
```

i'm good with using "plugin" here. might be a good chance to link to an explanation in the glossary once we have one. if we do that, i could see linking the "plugin" text to a more specific term like "CI Service Scaffolder Plugin" or something along those lines

user in the interactive prompt. Will be called with the following arguments:

> * `projectRoot` __string__ full path to directory where scaffolder will create

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `projectRoot` __string__ full path to the directory where scaffolder will create
```

  the JavaScript project
* `vcs` __object__
  * `host` __string__ VCS hosting service to generate the repo with (e.g., `github`)
  * `owner` __string__ account name on the host service for the repository to
    generate (e.g., `form8ion`)
  * `name` __string__ repository name to generate (e.g., `javascript-scaffolder`)
* `visibility` __string__ visibility of the project to be scaffolded (valid

>   values are: `Public`, `Private`)

Reviewer: 👍🏼 i like this. 

i also look at it and think "how are we going to remember to update this when we add another valid value". might be the type of thing that could be small enough to generate at some point as a way to dip out toe into the process

Author: agreed. i'm not sure how we'll keep this all up to date confidently. linking to more "general" core shapes that we pull out elsewhere like you mentioned in another comment will help a lot in that realm i think.
